The aim of the project is to develop a machine learning-based model that will predict whether a person is suffering from heart disease based on the provided medical data. The primary goal of the proposed model is early detection and improved patient care. It also focuses on enhancing the detection, accuracy, accessibility and cost-effectiveness. The prediction of the presence of heart disease will be done using a dataset that contains various patient data such as age, sex, chest pain type, resting blood pressure, serum cholesterol, fasting blood sugar, resting electrocardiographic results, maximum heart rate achieved, exercise induced angina, etc. The result of the output will be displayed in an easy-to-understand meter showing the seriousness of the disease and also suggesting possible treatments. Machine Learning algorithms with added novelty will be adopted in addressing the problem.  The performance of the same will also be evaluated using accuracy, precision, recall and F-1 Score. The model to be designed will hence benefit to address the global issue of heart diseases, which is the leading cause of death worldwide. Early detection with accuracy will help reduce increasing mortality rates. It will also contribute in cost-effective solutions especially for people in underserved areas. The model will not only be diagnosing heart diseases with precision but also reduce the reliance on expensive and time consuming traditional diagnostic methods. Thus it can be cosidered as a valuable contribution to the society.  
